JS9 is our Web-based implementation of DS9, the de facto standard image display
for astronomy. With JS9, you can:

  - display URL-based FITS images and binary tables
  - drag and drop FITS images and binary tables
  - change the colormap and scale
  - manipulate the contrast/bias with the mouse
  - display pixel values and WCS position information
  - create and manipulate geometric regions of interest
  - add your own extensions using plugins and the public api
  - perform local (browser-based) data analysis via plugins
  - perform remote (server-side) data analysis via node.js or CGI
  - display RGB composite images
  - control JS9 from the command line
  - print images

The JS9 Website contains on-line documentation, demos, and downloads:

    http://js9.si.edu

Of course, JS9 also is available on GitHub:

    https://github.com/ericmandel/js9

For installation instructions, start with help/install.html.

JS9 can change how we think about image display and analysis, moving
beyond the Desktop into the Web. You can simply drag and drop a FITS
image from your computer onto the JS9 display. All of basic JS9/DS9
functionality is immediately available: zoom, pan, colormaps, scaling,
regions, WCS, etc.

You can extend JS9 using the plugin facility in combination with the
JS9 public API. For example, you can perform browser-based analysis on
the displayed image. On the JS9 Website, click the Plugins tab, create
a region, and move it around ...

In addition, URL-based data files support server-side analysis (using
the original data files on the back-end server).  Server-side analysis
can be run, for example, in response to region changes, with the
results displayed back in your browser. On the JS9 Website, click the
Analysis tab, choose a task, create a region, and move it around ...

JS9 originally was conceived as way to provide DS9 functionality on
the Web, in order to support astronomical data archives, data centers,
and individual projects. It subsequently has proven its value in the 
lab, on education Web pages, and as part of Web-based analysis tools.
It has been tested on a variety of browsers (Firefox, Safari, Chrome, 
IE9) using a variety of operating systems (Linux, OS X, IOS, Windows).

We are very interested in exploring new uses for JS9 as we evolve its
functionality in response to community needs. If you would like to 
join the fun, please contact us at: saord@cfa.harvard.edu.

							Eric Mandel
